// Welcome Paragraph

Howdy, and welcome to SoundBite! Soundbite is a ground-up web application made by students who enjoy music and would love to make its basic
theory accessible to everyone! Music is a fantastic outlet for all people regardless of age, profession, background, and more. Even though this
page is limited to basic Western classical theory, it's a great place to start a journey in reading and  music, whether it's in a formal band/orchestral
setting, group jam sessions, "noodling" on your own, or even just brushing up for that music quiz Monday morning. We hope that you find this information 
useful and go out, create, and express yourself.



// Clefs & Keys

// Intro Paragraph

Clefs, clefs, and more clefs galore! Musical clefs are a symbol in written music that establish what notes the staff (the five horizontal lines that hold
the notes) holds, as well as their relative pitch (high, low, *really* low, etc.). Technically, there are about 6 established clefs, however, there are 2
main clefs widely used by many instruments. These 2 clefs are the Treble and Bass Clefs. Treble clefs are usually used for higher pitch intruments, like
flutes, clarients, and trumpets. Bass Clefs are usually used to write music for lower pitched instruments, like tubas, trombones, and baritones. There
are even instruments that utilize both, like piano and guitar. Knowing these 2 clefs is the first step in understanding the most mainstream music sheets.
Read more below to find out how each clef is organized and what each line/space in the staff represents in all the notes' glory.

// Treble Clef

The Treble Clef is the most famous clef. Normally used to depict the pitches of higher-sounding intruments, they represent the notes FACE (the
spaces in the staff starting from the bottom-up) and the notes EGBDF (the lines of the staff starting from the bottom-up) to make a combined EFGABCDEF
from bottom to top. Notice how some notes seem to repeat, but they are not the same! Notes of the same letter name but different placement represent a
difference in pitch, called an octave interval, where one is higher or lower sounding than the other, depending on how you look at it. A good way to
remember what notes are is to use acronyms! For space notes, "FACE", and for line notes, "Every Good Boy Does Fine", and more. Use whatever helps you best.
Another great characteristic of the treble clef is that the swirl of its bottom-half centers on the note G (on the line). Even though the staff is
limited to 9 notes within, notes can actually extend past the bottom or the top of the clef, given that you follow the same rules of jumping from line
to space to line to space (etc.) in alphabetical order from A-G (never H or beyond!). These notes usually rest on extra line segments called ledger lines.

// Bass Clef

The Bass Clef is arguably the second most famous clef. This clef is normally used to depict the pitches of lower-sounding intruments, they represent
the notes ACEG (the spaces in the staff starting from the bottom-up) and the notes GBDFA (the lines of the staff starting from the bottom-up) to make
a combined GABCDEFGA from bottom to top. Notice how some notes seem to repeat, however, they are not the same note! Notes of the same letter name but
different placement represent a difference in pitch, called an octave interval, where one is higher or lower-sounding than the other, depending on how
you look at it. A good way to remember what notes are is to use acronyms! For space notes, "Ally Craves Excellent Grapes", and for line notes, "Good
Boys Do Fine, Always", and more. Use whatever helps you best. Another great characteristic of the bass clef is that the two dots to the right of the swirl
hold the note F (on the line) in between them. Even though the staff is limited to 9 notes within, notes can actually extend past the bottom or the top of
the clef, given that you follow the same rules of jumping from line to space to line to space (etc.) in alphabetical order from A-G (never H or beyond!).
These notes usually rest on extra line segments called ledger lines.



// Types of Notes and Rests

Notes and rests are the individual parts that create a piece of music through sound and silence in rhythm, respectively. The most basic types of notes and
rests begin with a value of 4 and progress to each step by dividing in half the value. The table shown displays the most common types of notes, from whole,
half, quarter, eighth, sixteenth, and thirty-second notes and rests. After that, the symbols progress more or less the same, adding a flag for each
progressed level (for example, a 64th note/rest has 4 flags). Each staff line is split up into segments called measures, which contain an equal amount of
beats per segment until stated otherwise (in the intermediate concept of time signature changes). However, for now, let's focus on the nice, round number
of a common time signature, which is 4/4 (read as "four four"), or also denoted as "C" for common time. This means that the measure gets 4 beats (indicated
in the numerator), where every beat is given to a quarter (1/4) note (indicated in the denominator).
